1. So why should we lump them all together under an umbrella term like data systems? <br>
lump(把...归并在一起 肿块)<br><br>
2. Many new tools for data storage and processing have emerged in recent years<br>
emerge(出现 浮现 兴起,形成 摆脱出来{survive, recover from})<br><br>
3. Instead, the work is broken down into tasks that can be performed effi‐ ciently on a single tool, and those different tools are stitched together using application code.<br> 
stitch (缝 绣 编织 缝合[have stitches 缝针] 肋部的突然剧痛[have a stitch出现岔气, to be in stitches岔气, have sb in stitches逗得某人笑岔气])<br><br>
4. Your composite data system may provide certain guarantees. <br>
composite|kəmˈpɑzit| (复合的 拼合的; 合成物 to be compisite of sth and sth)<br><br>
5. The system should continue to work correctly (performing the correct function at the desired level of performance) even in the face of adversity (hardware or soft‐ ware faults, and even human error)<br>
adversity(逆境 灾难)<br><br>
6. These words are often cast around without a clear understanding of what they mean<br>
cast 描述(describe) 表述(present)<br><br>
7. The things that can go wrong are called faults, and systems that anticipate faults and can cope with them are called fault-tolerant or resilient <br>
resilient(有弹性的, 复原的 有适应的)<br><br>
8. A fault is usually defined as one com‐ ponent of the system deviating from its spec, whereas a failure is when the system as a whole stops providing the required service to the user.<br>
deviate(偏离); specification(规格 规范)<br><br>
9. by deliberately inducing faults, you ensure that the fault-tolerance machinery is continually exercised and tested, which can increase your confidence that faults will be handled correctly when they occur naturally.<br>
deliberately (intentionally) induce(cause)<br><br>
10.  if an attacker has compromised a system and gained access to sensitive data, that event cannot be undone <br>
compromise(妥协 危及{threaten} weaken 使陷入危险)<br><br>
11. the power grid has a blackout<br>
blackout (power cut;temporary memory loss;temporary faint)<br><br>
12. The bugs that cause these kinds of software faults often lie dormant for a long time until they are triggered by an unusual set of circumstances. <br>
dormant (latent; not active)<br><br>
13. thorough testing<br>
thorough |ˈθəroʊ | (彻底的 全面的 缜密的)<br><br>
14. When a problem occurs, metrics can be invaluable in diagnosing the issue<br>
invaluable(无法估价的 非常宝贵的)<br><br>
15. One common reason for degradation is increased load<br>
degradation (落魄 屈辱 恶化[环境] 毁坏[设施] 退化[biology] 降解)<br><br>
16. we need to succinctly describe the current load on the system; only then can we discuss growth questions (what happens if our load doubles?)<br>
succinct |səkˈsɪŋ(k)t| (简要的 could you be a little more succinct?)<br><br>
17. Simply handling 12,000 writes per second (the peak rate for posting tweets) would be fairly easy<br>
simply (简单地 仅仅 not elaborately) elaborately (精心地 精美地 周详充分地)<br><br>
18. Most requests are reasonably fast, but there are occa‐ sional outliers that take much longer<br>
outlier |ˈaʊtˌlaɪər| (局外人 异常值)<br><br>
19. Queueing delays often account for a large part of the response time at high percen‐ tiles.<br>
account for(how do you account for the disappearance of the letter?信不见了你作何解释)<br><br>
20. Now that we have discussed the parameters for describing load and metrics for meas‐ uring performance, we can start discussing scalability in earnest<br>
earnest (认真; 认真的 诚挚的)<br><br>
21. People often talk of a dichotomy between scaling up (vertical scaling, moving to a more powerful machine) and scaling out (horizontal scaling, distributing the load across multiple smaller machines) <br>
dichotomy |daɪˈkɑdəmi| (一分为二-a dichotomy between A and B A和B之间的对立)<br><br>
22. good architectures usually involve a pragmatic mixture of approaches: for example, using several fairly powerful machines can still be simpler and cheaper than a large number of small virtual machines.<br>
progamatic (务实的)<br><br>
23. It is conceivable that distributed data systems will become the default in the future, even for use cases that don’t han‐ dle large volumes of data or traffic<br>
conceivable |kənˈsivəb(ə)l| (可想见的  it is conceivable that...能想见的是... )<br><br>
24. discuss how they fare not just in terms of scalability, but also ease of use and maintainability<br>
fare (perform in a specified way in a particular situation or over a particular period of time)<br><br>
25. If those assumptions turn out to be wrong, the engineering effort for scaling is at best wasted, and at worst counterproductive<br>
counterproductive (适得其反的)<br><br>
26. A software project mired in complexity is sometimes described as a big ball of mud <br>
mire |maɪ(ə)r | (泥潭 沼泽 困境) mired (adj)<br><br>
27. There are various possible symptoms of complexity: explosion of the state space, tight coupling of modules, tangled dependencies, inconsistent naming and terminology, hacks aimed at solving performance problems, special-casing to work around issues elsewhere, and many more. <br>
symptom |ˈsɪm(p)təm| (症状 征兆) tangle |ˈtæŋɡəl| (纠结 混乱; 把...纠缠在一起 缠成一团) work around (a method for overcoming a problem or limitation in a program or system.)<br><br>
28. when the system is harder for developers to understand and reason about, hidden assumptions, unintended consequences, and unexpected interactions are more easily overlooked.<br>
reason (推断 推理) overlook(俯瞰 看漏 不理会)<br><br>
29. It’s extremely unlikely that your system’s requirements will remain unchanged for‐ ever. They are much more likely to be in constant flux<br>
flux (不断的变动uncertainty)
30. Now, in the 2010s, NoSQL is the latest attempt to overthrow the relational model’s dominance.<br>
overthrow (推翻 废除)<br><br>

31. The two most prominent were the relational model (which became SQL, and took over the world) and the network model (which initially had a large following but eventually faded into obscurity).<br>
obscurity (晦涩 默默无闻[being little known])<br><br>

32. However, if your application does use many-to-many relationships, the document model becomes less appealing.<br>
appeal (n&v 呼吁[an appeal for sth/to appeal for sth] 上诉[appeal to higher court; appeal against sth] 吸引 [does this color appeal to you])<br><br>

33. A hybrid of the relational and document models is a good route for databases to take in the future<br>
route |ruːt| <br><br>

34. If the database wants to reclaim unused disk space behind the scenes, it might need to move records around, changing the order in which the animals appear. <br>
reclaim (开垦 回收利用 拿回) <br><br>

35. However, benchmarks are often inconclusive and sensitive to details of the workload. You need to test systems with your particular workload in order to make a valid com‐ parison. <br>
inconclusive (无结论的 非决定性的 没有说服力的)<br><br>

36. Further changes to storage engine design will probably be needed if non-volatile memory (NVM) technologies become more widely adopted<br>
volatile |ˈvɑlədl| (易挥发的 不稳定的 变化无常的)<br><br>

37. As databases expanded into areas that didn’t involve money changing hands, the term transaction nevertheless stuck, referring to a group of reads and writes that form a logical unit<br>
stuck (保持不变) <br><br>

38. They are usu‐ ally reluctant to let business analysts run ad hoc analytic queries on an OLTP data‐ base, since those queries are often expensive, scanning large parts of the dataset, which can harm the performance of concurrently executing transactions.<br>
reluctant ｜ rəˈləktənt｜ (不情愿的 reluctant to do sth)<br><br>


39. Applications inevitably change over time<br>
inevitable |ɪnˈɛvɪdəb(ə)l| (必然发生的 难以避免的)<brbr>

40. Web services are merely the latest incarnation of a long line of technologies for mak‐ ing API requests over a network, many of which received a lot of hype but have seri‐ ous problems<br>
incarnation |ˌɪnkɑrˈneɪʃ(ə)n| (体现 incarnation of sth 生命 in a previous incarnation[前世])

41. Let writes that originated at a higher numbered replica always take precedence over writes that originated at a lower numbered replica<br>
take precedence over (优先于)

42. When a client makes a read from several nodes in parallel, it can detect any stale responses<br>
stale (不新鲜的 陈腐的)

43. Partitioned databases were pioneered in the 1980s by products such as Teradata and Tandem NonStop SQL <br>
pioneer |ˌpaɪəˈnɪr| (开创 开辟)

44. If the partitioning is unfair, so that some partitions have more data or queries than others, we call it skewed. A partition with disproportionately high load is called a hot spot.<br>
skew |skju| (偏斜)<br>
disproportionately |ˌdɪsprəˈpɔrʃ(ə)nətli| (不成比例地)

45. There is one important question with regard to rebalancing that we have glossed over: does the rebalancing happen automatically or manually?<br>
gloss over (掩饰)<br>
gloss (explain)<br>

46. The Slippery Concept of a Transaction<br>
slip (滑 滑倒 滑动)<br>
slippery(滑的 不靠谱的)<br>

47. The transac‐ tion support in MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL Server, etc., is uncannily similar to that of System R.<br>
uncannily |ˌənˈkænəli| (extraordinarily eerily)<br>
eerily (恐怖怪异地)<br>

48. Transactions were the main casualty of this movement<br>
casual |ˈkaZHo͞oəl|<br>
casualty (伤亡人员 受害者 急诊室)<br>

49. Transactions were the antithesis of scalability or essential requirement for “serious applica‐ tions” with “valuable data.” Both viewpoints are pure hyperbole.<br>
hyperbole｜haɪˈpərbəli｜(夸张)<br>

50. Two-phase locking is a so-called pessimistic concurrency control mechanism
pessimistic |ˌpesəˈmistik| (悲观的)<br>

51. In distributed systems, suspicion, pessimism, and paranoia pay off.<br>
pay off (result in success) 可以理解为 hard work pay off 偿还了辛苦工作

52. Fencing tokens can detect and block a node that is inadvertently acting in error<br>
inadvertent (无意的 粗心的)<br>

53. However, if the node deliberately wanted to subvert the system’s guarantees, it could easily do so by sending messages with a fake fencing token.<br>
subvert (颠覆 state, religion, democracy, authority)

54. This is confusing because it violates our intuition of cause and effect.<br>
cause (因) effect(果)

55. When a replica processes an operation, it must ensure that all causally preceding operations (all operations that happened before) have already been processed<br>
preceding (之前的) precede(先于 her death was preceded by a long illness)

56. Many cloud services choose not to implement distributed transactions due to the operational problems they engender.<br>
engender (导致 引发 to engender a sense of responsibility in sb使某人产生责任感)

57. Two quite different types of distributed transactions are often conflated.<br>
conflated (混淆confused with another or with each other : not properly differentiated)<br>
conflate (合并)

58. Heterogeneous distributed transactions<br>
heterogeneour (异构consisting of dissimilar or diverse ingredients or constituents)

59. Assuming the network delay is negligible compared to the required timestamp accuracy.<br>
negligible |ˈneɡləjəb(ə)l| (可以忽略的)